Yes, good morning.
Mr. Chevalier, please.
Yes, my name is Nick Baz Baines, B-A-S-B-A-N-E-S.
I'm a writer in Massachusetts.
I was just talking to Susan Birdman, and I believe she's already spoken to Mr. Chevalier.
I'm writing a book for Random House on book collectors and book collecting, and I will be attending a single of his books next week.
I thought I might talk to him for a little while at least a minute.
Okay, what's your phone number?
Yes, I'm in Massachusetts, and it's 508-793-9186.
Okay.
Now, give me your message.
Could you give me an idea when that might be, because I'll hang around with you?
It should be very shortly.
Okay, fine.
I'll be in my desk.
Thank you.
Good morning, sir.
How are you?
Good.
Thank you very much for calling.
Appreciate it.
Where am I calling, by the way?
I'm in Worcester, Massachusetts.
Oh, OK.
And my day job here is I'm the book editor of the Worcester Telegram.
And I'm also writing a book for Random House.
I've been working on it now for it.
In fact, I just finished drafting a letter to my editor.
It's exactly a year since we signed our contract telling what I've been doing for the last year and how we're going.
Briefly, what the book is about.
It is not how to book collect.
It is about book collectors.
Half the book is history.
Half the book is contemporary.
And the contemporary section is really exciting.
I've interviewed a number of important collectors, William Scheide at Princeton University, Carlton Lake in Austin, Texas, Charlie.
Right?
Yeah, I went to law school, Columbia.
I don't know the card.
I went to law school.
He went to Harvard, I know.
In any case, his collection of American fiction is 70,000 or 80,000 books, I guess.
But that's just, you know, those are the individual collectors and also spending a good deal of time on institutional collections, which have been formed largely through the efforts of private collectors.
The New York Public Library is entirely indebted to private collectors.
So it's, it'll be good stories, if you're off with the book guards, groups, and scholars, and the way that C.W.
saw the archaeology was there too far in our keen subject of interest to the general readership of trying to do the same thing with book collecting.
That's kind of my quick
My quick explanation of what I thought.
I did spend some time in L.A.
in August.
Bill Self, do you know Bill?
He's a producer.
God, I know the name, but not as a book collector.
He's been collecting one for 34 years.
I talked to John Larroquette, the actor, who collects modern forests.
Sandy Berger up in Carmel, who has a marvelous William Morris collection for the finest in the world.
I've handled some of these things.
I handled Shady's Gutenberg Bible.
When I was at the Lilly Library, I handled Tamerlane.
We were a fountain of knowledge on book collectors.
I hope so.
I hope that's the case.
But again, the focus is stories.
Right.
Telling good stories.
Now, I'm coming to your sale next week.
We also got a piece from the New York Times, which will be published, I believe, January, February.
The hook for this piece is the sales, major book sales this fall I've been to.
Everything of importance, it's Sotheby's, Christie's, and Swan.
Your sale is the big book sale for Christie's this fall.
You have a chapter that starts with the wholesale in 1911, which was the great American book auction ever.
I'll start a chapter with that, with Huntington coming to New York on the train, and the sitting at the old home of George D. Smith, and all of a sudden announcing his presence to the bookworm.
Prior to that, nobody really paid him any attention.
And at that sale was Bill Green for J.P.
Morgan.
Rosenbach was there.
The Wideners were there.
Henry Fullager was there.
Everybody was there.
Book collecting was a bigger thing then, yeah.
Yeah, but it's a device.
I can use that auction as dramatically as a device to use all these people, you know.
And that chapter will end with the Jerome Kern sale of 1929, which preceded a great crash.
And so I kind of blackened the golden age by most of the deal.
But I think it'll be fun.
Random House certainly thinks so.
They're the first house to look at it, and they bought it.
They've got a paperback deal with vintage as well.
So it'll be around for a while.
It'll be in print.
And here you are, one of the very few
whose books are going to sell that one can talk to, I guess.
You know what I mean by that, right?
Yep.
And I wonder if you... What profit this decision to sell to part with your books?
Well, I'll tell you what happened.
I got very, very interested in books, and I collected it very, very intensely.
I mean, other than my own work, that really was what...
I was doing.
About four years ago, four or five years ago, I started working with something called the Jonathan Club in Los Angeles.
There are two big businessmen's clubs in Los Angeles.
The Jonathan Club is one of them.
And I got interested in learning about California art and the early California artists, and four early California artists were made life artists of the Jonathan Club.
and there was a lot of art there but it was not not well maintained it needed to be cleaned and some needed reframing some frames need gilding etc and i convinced the club that what we should do is to improve the condition of the paintings and perhaps look at getting some more and i got some money from the club to do that and i went out and hired a really wonderful lady to be our part-time curator
who had been active with the California Museum.
And as time went on, that led to forming an art foundation.
So I formed an art foundation where it was supported by members of the Jonathan Club.
And the goal of the foundation was to acquire California art and loan it to museums so that people could see it.
And so then I started collecting.
So then my interest
began shifting more to California art.
And at the same time, the kinds of things that I were collecting, the great books, um, they just weren't available anymore.
I mean, uh, there are so few in, in, uh, in outstanding condition.
Uh, there are so few great fine bindings, uh, from the period I was collecting that were done in the English speaking world.
Um,
And so I was finding that even though the collection had a relatively small number of volumes, there probably aren't more than 160 volumes, that it probably was the best collection in America.
Certainly the best one I could find out about.
Yeah, mine.
Mine.
And, you know, I know of one collection in England that's better.
There may be more, but I only know of one.
Which one is that?
Getty.
His collection is better.
Okay.
But even there, I'm much stronger in Sangorski and Sutcliffe than he is.
I mean, I don't know what you know about this kind of binding, but these jewel bindings were done starting in 1906, and virtually all the good ones were done by the mid-20s.
And in fact, all the great ones were done in three years.
Mm-hmm.
1912 to 1914.
Uh-huh.
Yes.
Of the period.
The period is late 19th century, early 20th century.
I'm not suggesting that, you know, the early bindings, I've got an important collection.
I do not.
But from that particular period, and this all started with William Morris and the revival of arts and crafts, and then we started having a new development in fine bindings.
From the 17th, well, from the 16th century until the last quarter of the 19th century, just about all the bindings looked the same.
Well, you must know Sandy Bernard from Carmel, but his William Morris collection is preeminent.
No, I don't know him.
Again, I know the name.
Oh, great.
Great.
Oh, it was the scholarship.
It was the scholarship and acquiring them.
It was learning about it.
I would go back to the binders in London and in Bath, and I'd talk to the owners.
Everybody was really friendly.
And I could get back into whatever records were not destroyed in the two world wars.
And I copied the records and learned everything I could about the people that worked on these bindings and then try to hunt them down.
And that was the fun of it for me.
Now, once I acquired them, I mean, I've kind of got them.
They're in my own library.
Nobody sees them except some of my close friends.
They're fragile, so you can't really loan them out to exhibits unless you've got special lighting protection against ultraviolet lights so the leather doesn't fade, et cetera.
And I thought, okay, now it's time, you know, to go public.
And this was my way of going public.
And pass it on, and then I'll move on to something else.
Yeah, which is California art right now.
So you're out of the books?
Yeah, I'll be out of the books.
And I guess the problem with this is the realization that you really couldn't improve this collection.
Well, that's paramount.
I mean, the chances of my getting, you know, I got this all in 15 years.
If I spent the next 15 years on it, maybe I could improve it 10%.
Right.
Would you say that you were obsessive in your pursuit of these treasures?
Oh, absolutely.
I mean, I dealt with all the, not all, but you can't deal with them all, but I dealt with many of the key dealers that deal in this kind of book.
And, you know, any time anything came up, I got first call.
How did you get onto these bindings?
How did that happen?
Well, kind of by accident.
I mean, I didn't start collecting book bindings.
I started collecting.
Well, I started having some free time.
When my company owned Bergdorf Goodman, I'd be in New York, and at the end of the day, instead of going to a bar or chasing women, I would go down the street, and there was this bookstore called Barkfields, which is a preeminent name.
You probably know it.
And I'd go in there, and I'd just go around and just look at the books, and I'd go there, you know,
many, many times and never bought a thing.
And they didn't care.
And at one point, I bought a $50 book.
And then that got me started.
And then the next time I was in, they had a collection of books in French and Italian that were partially bound.
Not a very fancy collection, but really good books.
And my wife is French, so I bought that whole collection for my wife.
And then I started getting interested in children's illustrated books, limited editions by Arthur Rackham and Dulac and folks like that.
And I started buying those.
No, I sold those a few years ago to buy some of my extraordinary fine bindings.
And then I started collecting private press books on vellum.
And that's what I got very interested in, people like William Morris.
no i sold those to buy fine bindings as well and i had developed a pretty nice collection of those um and then i got into the fine bindings and that was uh kind of by accident too because a lot of these children's illustrated books had been rebound by e joseph in london and my wife and i were in london one time walking down the street and i saw the bookstore e joseph and i said gee they've
found some of my books, so I went in there, and I met the head of it, a fellow by the name of David Brass, and his wife had just had a baby that morning, and he had this wonderful jewel binding, which is the only one I've kept.
It isn't the most important, but it was my first one, on Shakespeare's poems that actually he had gotten through San Francisco, and I bought it.
And that's how I started becoming interested in that kind of book.
Well, I mean, first I became obsessed with the scholarship, okay?
And I made arrangements to get into Zanesdorf Book Bindery and Zangorski in Sutcliffe and Baton in Bath, who had taken over Riviere, which was an important bindery that went out of business in 1939.
And I spent time there going through the records.
And then I spent time with the book dealers, E. Joseph, which has been around for, I don't know, 100 plus years.
And they had sold many of these bindings, and they specialized in them to try to hunt down where they were.
And with Heritage Bookshop in Los Angeles, I'm friends with the people there, the Weinsteins.
And they're very important in that kind of book in America.
And Cummings in New York.
Jim Cummings.
Yeah, Jim gets some of those books.
Those were the three main booksellers.
And Mike Frost at Bartfield.
which was more important in the past than they are now.
Yeah, but I didn't get up to Boston much in those days.
Later I did because I got active with Harvard, but in those days I didn't.
So through them, and then I got a line on, about four years ago, I got a line on a guy that had bought from the Phoebe Boyle sale.
You familiar with that sale?
Well, this fellow had bought them, and my understanding is that he got married a second time, and his widow, wife number two, who had been, I guess, much younger than him, decided to sell her collection.
And she contacted some book dealer, and he in turn contacted both Brass from E. Joseph and Lou Weinstein from Heritage, and they went there, and I guess they went there on a
a Thursday, grabbed up everything, and then they had lined up customers to show them to, but I was the first customer on Saturday, and I bought the most significant things, which included the most important jewel binding ever made, which is in the sale, which is this Keats.
Keats.
Some poems by Keats.
It took two years to do
It took the team of the very best people in the firm, and they had the very best people in London.
And it has 4,400 onlays of leather and over 1,000 jewels.
And it's an illuminated manuscript, and they had a great painter named Geddes, G-E-D-D-E-S, who did these wonderful pre-Raphaelian paintings.
And, you know, the whole thing is just a wonder.
Is this something you can tell me what it cost you?
No.
I'm not going to tell you what it cost.
But it cost six figures.
Okay.
How about, how did you feel if you got this?
Tell me about that.
Oh.
They wouldn't tell me what they were going to show me.
And, you know, they said, we have something really wonderful to show your collection.
No, was this in L.A.?
Yeah, this was in L.A.
They brought it to L.A.
They went down to Heritage.
So I went down there at 10 o'clock in the morning.
And, I mean, I was just overwhelmed.
So at 1 o'clock, I called my wife, and I said, you've got to see this, you know.
Oh, come on.
I said, you've got to see this.
So she came down.
And at 4 o'clock, she called my son, and he had to come down.
And we kept going.
I mean, it was a heady experience.
It was a high.
And we all went out to dinner, and at 10 o'clock at night, I struck the deal.
And that's when I sold back...
all those other books I described to you as part of that deal.
To the two of them.
And then I still had to come up with an awful lot of money, which I did, to get very few books.
But four of the top ten jewel bindings in the world were in that, including the number one.
I think probably about number one, two, four, and five are in that.
Now, if there were still summits to conquer out there, you'd still be collecting, you think?
Oh, sure.
But, I mean, I know where three of the other top ten are, and they're not going anywhere.
So, you... And then the same thing with ivory miniature bindings.
You know, I have some great, great ivory miniature bindings.
But they're in institutions.
A lot of these are in institutions.
They're not going to go anyplace.
So...
Or they're in the Getty collection, and that's not going anyplace.
So part of the kick for you, then, is getting them?
Yeah.
But when did you get them?
Then I had special full leather boxes made for each of them to protect them forever because, you know, I just didn't want anything to happen to them.
See, I guess what I'm driving at is a circuitous way.
My opening chapter deals with...
the moment inevitably comes when the precious volumes must pass to one of the hills.
Most collectors don't even want to consider the inevitability of fighting with these things.
What's amazing to me is how you just made this decision and you're simmering yourself.
Is there going to be a little bit of hurt in there?
No, because I will do that with everything.
I mean, eventually I want to simplify.
I mean, I think life starts simple and then we develop our interests, which also means we complicate it.
And I think what we eventually should end up with is going back to simplicity.
So I'm now 51 years old and, you know, by the time I'm 60 to 65, I'm going to be out of everything.
I mean, I'm going to have a real simple life where I can just
Not have to worry about this problem or that problem and travel and meet people and enjoy people and go scuba diving and have a great time.
These things do not dominate your life.
No, no.
I guess you enjoy them, period.
And I say it's time to measure them off to another life.
Sure, sure.
I mean, they're wonderful, but they're things.
And, you know, pass them on.
Now, one thing that really interests me about bindings is that it's really the only end of book collecting where you are not collecting the content.
That's correct.
The content is basically irrelevant to what you're collecting.
And most people collect autographs, then it's irrelevant, too.
It's just who signed it.
Now, when you go out to buy a binding,
What's inside, I mean, you don't even probably consider that.
I mean, that doesn't enter the equation, does it?
Unless it's an illuminated manuscript, yeah.
That's another story.
Yeah, and a lot of these are illuminated manuscripts.
But then we're talking about another artwork in itself.
But it's art.
It's art.
There's no question.
So it's a book collecting, per se, then?
Well, I can't say that either, because it all goes together.
What is inside has to match with what's on the covers.
But the thing is, if you do a binding, what you're trying to do is you're trying to put the contemporary art of the time together with the content of the book.
If someone were doing Keats' poems today, he'd do a totally different kind of binding to reflect the art of today, or at least he should.
You see, the problem that I had with binding up until the last quarter of the 19th century
Everybody just copied the bindings that were done in the 16th and early 17th century.
I mean, nobody tried to get contemporary with the time.
But it's the way you're interpreting something today.
Like if you see a Shakespeare play today, you interpret it differently than the time of Shakespeare.
And so what the binding does is it does that.
So it is one with the book.
It's not just a separate, isolated painting hanging on a wall.
It's one with the book.
Now, when I get my copy of the catalog, which I'm getting tomorrow or the next day, will it describe the books that are contained inside these bindings?
Sure.
But not, you know, a catalog is highly technical.
What I did is, in addition to that catalog, before I ever gave this to Christie's, because I wanted to have a remembrance, I had some scholarship done
which goes way beyond what's in the catalog on each of these books, which will get much more descriptive of what's inside the book.
Is that in the catalog?
No, there wouldn't be room, but it's a book I have, which I'd be glad to show to you.
Did you publish it?
No.
Well, I have more than one, but I haven't gotten it yet because it's being hardcovered for me.
Oh, really?
Is this something that you're going to sell?
No.
No, it's just for my own remembrance of this.
But the catalog is limited in space,
And so it can't have all the detail, but it has much more detail.
Well, this is something I would like to see at some point.
Sure.
If that's at all possible.
Do you get out here?
I'm coming out again, I believe, first of the year.
I'll be glad to come back.
Sure.
I'll have you over the house, and I'll be glad to show you.
That would be nice.
I do have a couple more interviews.
I've got another day of research at the Huntington.
And one of the rules I've been close to myself
every collection.
I'll see yours at Christie's next week.
Right.
Even the history stuff, there's no rehashing work that we have done for Rosenbach and Huntington and Morgan.
We've got unread letters at the Rosenbach Library in Philadelphia, which has just been made available.
Stuff that always, nice cherry stuff that we've always looked at before.
So I'm going to give a nice, new, fresh look to everything I'm doing.
That's a reasonable way of saying it.
Everything is done to order.
I'm really going out to meet the people I'm writing about.
And if you have this book, I'd love to see it.
Sure.
And you will be at the sale next week?
Oh, yeah.
So I'll make it a point to seek you out and shake your hand.
I'm the guy with the beard.
Yeah, the guy with the beard.
Yeah.
Tell me a little bit about yourself.
Are you from L.A.?
From New York originally.
Yeah.
But I've lived in L.A.
since 1972.
My background is I went to Columbia, undergrad.
I was in the Navy.
I was on a Navy scholarship.
I was in the Navy for three years.
Had a great time.
Loved it.
I was on the Kitty Hawk.
I was on the Erskine.
Ah, okay.
Public Affairs.
Okay.
When were you there?
I was there in 1968.
Okay, I was there 60 to 63, part of the commissioning crew, which was fun.
And then I went back to Columbia Law School, and I also took a business degree there.
And I've worked for Carter Holy Hail since 1972.
Which does what, don't we?
Retail.
We're West Coast Retail, the Broadway, if you've ever seen it, the Emporium in San Francisco, Weinstocks.
We're number one, I think, in the state of California, and we're in a number of other states.
But we've owned Neiman Marcus over the years.
We've owned Bergdorf Goodman.
20% of Harrods of London at one point.
Too bad you didn't get boonies before the guy in Canada did.
Yeah, well, that would have been nice one to have.
He stood up really good, too, didn't he?
Yeah.
He not only screwed up, but he screwed everybody up.
Everybody.
All of retail screwed up because of that.
Terrible, terrible.
Let me see, I have a couple other questions I want to ask you.
So it's another question, very important.
When you bought these, did you consider them investments?
Never.
I think that's a very important question because a lot of people are going to ask.
Collectors should never do that, and I never did.
I'm not going to make any money on this.
You'd be pleased if you do, obviously.
Well, I'd be pleased, but I don't expect to.
But that's not the motive.
I don't know how it could be, certainly, in these times, either.
No, that would never be the motive.
That would never be the motive for me on this.
I mean, if you collect, you should do it out of love and passion and scholarship.
Not to make money.
That's a speculator, Chuck.
I'm not going to do that.
I'll put my money in the stock market if I want to speculate.
What kind of people do you hope get these items?
Collectors.
Collectors?
Institutions?
Collectors.
Institutions is fine because institutions have an advantage because the institutions will then be able to show them to more people.
The problem with fine bindings is they're fragile.
There's a limited number of times you can open them.
So if they go in institutions, they've got to be put on display.
The problem with fine bindings in institutions is they put them away and nobody sees them anyway.
I mean, the Huntington's got a couple of jewel bindings.
I haven't gone over to see them.
I'm sure I could, but you have to make appointments, you know, the whole routine.
But that's just the nature of book collecting, and particularly of fine binding collecting.
But I'd like to see serious collectors get them.
I'm sure they will.
Do you think Mr. Getty will be there?
Buy a bag for Mr. Getty?
We'll both find out at the sale, right?
I hope so.
You don't know what Brian is buying.
You know where it's going.
I hope so, and I hope sometime to see his collection.
But from everything I hear, I hear that he's a great collector, a great lover of books.
Yeah, but he's also built a museum or is building a museum for them.
but nobody's really been in there.
I like those really great books.
At some point, they'll be for the public.
Well, you wonder during your lifetime.
Who knows?
Yeah, who knows?
I don't know.
But I suspect that that gives the public a good shot at some point seeing them.
Well, you know, people really hadn't had no idea where it was.
The first piece was within a wonderful working time.
It was an experiment.
Oh, about 1909 or something like that.
Everybody knew he was a great collector, but they really didn't know what he had.
So there were parallels to that.
Sure.
I have a terrific Morgan book coming up in the sale.
Actually, it's four books.
Is that right?
Yeah, what he did is he had printed on vellum 20 copies of his ivory miniature collection with a lot of scholarship.
Copy number 12 is in the sale.
Oh, great.
Yeah.
The other thing you should get from Susan is there's an article called Christy News, which is an interview with me on book collecting.
You'd probably get a copy of that.
Yeah, it's good.
Yeah, 2405 Glendower, G-L-E-N-D-O-W-E-R,
Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90027.
I can reach your camera.
Look at this phone number.
This number, and in evenings it's 213-660-6718.
Okay, I'm planning to come back out.
I'd love to see Bill South again.
He's got 23 presentation copies of Dickens, but we are here tonight.
There's plenty of time that he's searching for some of us out there at the time, but...
I really want to see his stuff.
He's the fellow in the book of Tamerlane.
His breath went to Tamerlane.
Wow.
He flew east just for that sail.
This was a lovely guy.
I went up and introduced myself to him.
He ate this.
Sure.
I'd love to talk to you.
I do want to go out and see him.
And I decided to do some footage with Huntington.
So if you see him, I hit the bucket below on his resume.
I would have it at the tip.
Sure.
So this is a thorough job I'm doing.
I'll tell you something else you ought to try to get a hold of, if you can.
Get a copy of the Phoebe Boyle catalog.
Get a book dealer if you find you want.
A lot of the books in my sale were in that sale, too.
Anderson Gallery, which was predecessor, of course, of Sotheby.
1923.
Oh, you do?
Yeah, I'm going to whiteboard.
I was 150 years old.
I mean, they had these blue catalogs, suction catalogs.
I found a criminal justice article about bibliocleptomedia, you know, from 19... Sure.
...at the last school.
I mean, just for wonderful little stories about... Well, you heard about this case out in the Midwest.
It's about it stole 20,000 things.
Did you hear about that case this summer?
Uh-oh.
The Steven Dunberg case, well, that's an extraordinary story.
This guy stole 20,000 things just to keep.
And the FBI both found the rest of them in March, was it?
And they put a value of $40 million.
Well, you know Glenn Dawson?
Sure.
We'll ask Glenn.
Glenn was the expert.
The FBI asked to come in and tell them that it was there.
I did read something about that, yeah.
Yeah.
Glenn went there.
Roger started it.
Hope the library just got back.
So I put Roger in next week.
That's great.
Incidentally, in this sale, you're going to find some Robert Ho books, too.
Really?
Yeah.
There's a wonderful... You guys did some Robert Ho books.
Boy, you really... Oh, I've got... Actually, they're mostly foreign books.
There are two very intriguing French bindings in the sale that Ho had.
And there is one of these silver gilt cage bindings.
That was on a German book, but actually it's French.
That was in the wholesale, which is the last one, the very last one at the end of my sale, and then there's a few French bindings of somebody else's in the sale.
But that's from Robert Ho, too.
And that's a beauty, and when I got it, it was tarnished, so I sent it to Asprey, and Asprey cleaned it in London.
So you can tell I do really serious things to get everything in the perfect condition that I can get it in.
And no looking back at all, no misgivings about this.
I mean, you've crossed the Rubicon.
Oh, yeah.
No, I mean, I'm moving on to the next thing.
Life is a movable feast.
And what's next?
What do you go after next?
Oh, I think what I'm going to be going after next is, you know, I'm still active with this art foundation, still working with that.
I mentioned there are four life artists of the club.
One of them is still alive, and he's just donated his entire collection to the foundation.
That's a million-dollar collection.
So I'm real pleased with that.
I've been working with that, getting museums now to show that collection.
So I'm working on that.
But in terms of collecting books, you think you're out of that?
Yeah.
I mean, I still have some nice books at home.
Barry Moser is a guy I happen to like.
I've got a lot of his materials.
In fact, I bought his woodblocks, which I will eventually donate to museums, for Alice in Wonderland, a lot of those books.
I own the original woodblocks.
And in fact, Dartmouth now has them on loan from me, the Alice woodblocks.
But I've got a lot of his woodblocks.
But Barry's a major guy, another person I've interviewed.
I talked to Barry.
I thought I had heard that he was a collector.
He said he really is, to me, collects things for functional purposes, but not really for obsessive purposes.
But Leonard Baskin is quite a collector.
And I've interviewed Lenny and his wife.
They're both collectors.
Oh, is that right?
I've seen it.
I almost bought one of his sculptures.
Yeah.
Well, his book collecting is not really known.
I'll be the first one I've ever heard about.
There's another thing here, right?
Oh, it's a lot.
I'm looking forward to your book.
Well, it's going to be fun.
And I'll even tell you what the title is.
The title is A Gentle Madness.
Oh, I like that.
Yeah, it's good.
In fact, I don't sell the book.
I derive that from when Isaiah Thomas, whose collection became the American Quarantine Society here in Worcestershire, so it's kind of tipping my hat to an institution down the street.
When he died, his grandson sucked up.
My grandfather was afflicted with the gentlest of infirmities.
He was a big wheeled maniac.
Uh-huh.
So I kind of modified that.
When I interviewed Colin Freyburn in Oxford, England, you may know, he's quite an important deal.
Sure.
He said, oh, I rather like the gentlest of infirmities.
Well, he's a scholar, yeah.
I said, Colin, I said, that's English.
I said, Americans from...
identify with Magnus.
You're so right.
The difference between the English and the Americans, I mean, they don't like adjectives.
They don't like powerful words.
Everything is understatement.
Exactly.
And actually, I toyed with that, and I discussed it with my editor at Random House to sit down.
I'll stick with the general manager to have a subtitle, Excursions on Book Collectors, not interviews with, but Excursions on Book Collectors, past and present.
They'll be shooting back and forth to probably hold on a few things.
John Carter Brown, and Jeremy Belnapp, opening shooting forward to people such as yourself, and Lady Apple, William Scheide, and Carter Burton.
We had some fun.
Now, Carter Burton, his first name is Shirley, right?
No, no, Carter.
No, but I think his first name is Shirley Carter Burton.
He probably dropped the Shirley.
He went to Harvard.
He went to Harvard, and then he went to Columbia Law, and he was married to Paley?
Precisely.
Yeah.
Blonde.
I don't know if he's blonde anymore, but he was.
Yeah, he was in my class at law school.
Maybe he dropped out.
He may have dropped out, but he was in my first year class at law school.
Yeah.
And his first name is Shirley.
Yep.
Okay, say Paul, and I look forward to meeting you, too.
Okay, Nick, and we'll see you next week.
You bet.
Thank you so much for your time.
Okay.
Appreciate it.
Bye.